---
title: Granular control with a gamepad
cover-image: CHANGEME
summary: Today we will learn to achieve granular control with a gamepad joysitck in Godot by creating a very simple character controller to showcase it.
---

Howdy, we are going to make a simple character controller that allows the player to move to the left and right with the left joystick on their gamepad. The character's speed is going to be effected by how far we are pushing the joystick to the left or right, thus acheiving granular control of the character's speed. Create a new project and let's get to it shall we 👍

## Creating the scenes ##
Although we could just make one scene with all of our logic and assets in it, I perfer to stick to seperating the individual components of my games into their own scenes. With that said we will create two scenes, one named player and the other named world. We will start by making the player scene. This scene will house the assets and logic for our player, I have included assets [here](https://mega.nz/#!NAlTkLJA!lyU85GTC83UDYBz2nFOo460BhiIXVUBMHxYR5DubGQE) but feel free to use your own (you can import assets by simply dragging them into the editor). Create a new `KinematicBody2D` node by clicking the `+` button in the top left of the Scene panel, searching for `KinematicBody2D`, and clicking `Create`. This will add a new node to the scene tree. Since this is the first node in the tree it is condsidered the `Root node` and all other nodes in the tree will be children of it. Rename this node to `Player` by double clicking on it in the Scene panel. Now create create two `Sprite` nodes and a `CollisionShape2D` node. Set one sprite node's texture to `shadow.png` and the other sprite node's texture to `player.png` and the name the nodes accordingly.  Set your shadow node's `position` to (0, 68) and its `scale` to (0.4, 0.17), its `Z Index` to -1, and 